Cite as: 558 U. S. ____ (2009)

15

Per Curiam

The evidence that he was AWOL is consistent with this
theory of mitigation and does not impeach or diminish the
evidence of his service. To conclude otherwise reflects a
failure to engage with what Porter actually went through
in Korea.
As the two dissenting justices in the Florida Supreme
Court reasoned, “there exists too much mitigating evi
dence that was not presented to now be ignored.” Id., at
937 (Anstead, J., concurring in part and dissenting in
part). Although the burden is on petitioner to show he
was prejudiced by his counsel’s deficiency, the Florida
Supreme Court’s conclusion that Porter failed to meet this
burden was an unreasonable application of our clearly
established law. We do not require a defendant to show
“that counsel’s deficient conduct more likely than not
altered the outcome” of his penalty proceeding, but rather
that he establish “a probability sufficient to undermine
confidence in [that] outcome.” Strickland, 466 U. S., at
693–694. This Porter has done.
The petition for certiorari is granted in part, and the
motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis is granted.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the
case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
It is so ordered.

—————— 

substance abuse, or psychological problems stemming from service in a

combat theater in the United States military”); Minn. Stat. §609.115,

Subd. 10 (2008) (providing for a special process at sentencing if the

defendant is a veteran and has been diagnosed as having a mental

illness by a qualified psychiatrist). 


