2

VIRGINIA v. HARRIS
ROBERTS, C. J., dissenting

late any traffic laws. When Harris was pulled over, how
ever, he reeked of alcohol, his speech was slurred, he
almost fell over in attempting to exit his car, and he failed
the sobriety tests the officer administered on the scene.
Harris was convicted of driving while intoxicated, but the
Virginia Supreme Court overturned the conviction. It
concluded that because the officer had failed to independ
ently verify that Harris was driving dangerously, the stop
violated the Fourth Amendment’s prohibition on unrea
sonable searches and seizures. 276 Va. 689, 696–698, 668
S. E. 2d 141, 146–147 (2008); see Pet. for Cert. 4 (citing
record).
I am not sure that the Fourth Amendment requires such
independent corroboration before the police can act, at
least in the special context of anonymous tips reporting
drunk driving. This is an important question that is not
answered by our past decisions, and that has deeply di
vided federal and state courts. The Court should grant the
petition for certiorari to answer the question and resolve
the conflict.
On the one hand, our cases allow police to conduct in
vestigative stops based on reasonable suspicion, viewed
under the totality of the circumstances. Terry v. Ohio, 392
U. S. 1, 22 (1968); Alabama v. White, 496 U. S. 325, 328–
331 (1990). In Florida v. J. L., 529 U. S. 266, 270 (2000),
however, we explained that anonymous tips, in the ab
sence of additional corroboration, typically lack the “indi
cia of reliability” needed to justify a stop under the rea
sonable suspicion standard. In J. L., the Court suppressed
evidence seized by police after receiving an anonymous tip
alleging that a young man, wearing a plaid shirt and
waiting at a particular bus stop, was carrying a gun. The
majority below relied extensively on J. L. in reversing
Harris’s conviction.
But it is not clear that J. L. applies to anonymous tips
reporting drunk or erratic driving. J. L. itself suggested

