Cite as: 561 U. S. ____ (2010)

11

ALITO, J., dissenting

The majority’s insistence on the binding effect of stipu
lations contrasts sharply with its failure to recognize the
binding effect of a party’s admissions in an answer. See
American Title Insurance Co. v. Lacelaw Corp., 861 F. 2d
224, 226 (CA9 1988) (“Factual assertions in pleadings and
pretrial orders, unless amended, are considered judicial
admissions conclusively binding on the party who made
them”); Bakersfield Westar Ambulance, Inc. v. Community
First Bank, 123 F. 3d 1243, 1248 (CA9 1997) (quoting
Lacelaw, supra). As noted above, Hastings admitted in its
answer, which was filed prior to the former dean’s deposi
tion, that at least as of that time, the law school did not
follow an accept-all-comers policy and instead allowed
“political, social, and cultural student organizations to
select officers and members who are dedicated to a par
ticular set of ideals or beliefs.” App. 93.
B
The Court also distorts the record with respect to the
effect on CLS of Hastings’ decision to deny registration.
The Court quotes a letter written by Hastings’ general
counsel in which she stated that Hastings “ ‘would be
pleased to provide [CLS] the use of Hastings facilities for
its meetings and activities.’ ” Ante, at 6 (quoting App.
294). Later in its opinion, the Court reiterates that “Hast
ings offered CLS access to school facilities to conduct
meetings,” ante, at 24, but the majority does not mention
that this offer was subject to important qualifications. As
Hastings’ attorney put it in the District Court, Hastings
told CLS: “ ‘Hastings allows community groups to some
degree to use its facilities, sometimes on a pay basis, I
understand, if they’re available after priority is given to
registered organizations’. We offered that.” App. 442.
The Court also fails to mention what happened when
CLS attempted to take advantage of Hastings’ offer. On
August 19, 2005, the local CLS president sent an e-mail to

