Cite as: 560 U. S. ____ (2010)

11

KENNEDY, J., dissenting

Quorum Requirements, App. to Brief for Respondent
1a−3a. Six months later, Board Member Acosta resigned.
See NLRB Bulletin, Ronald Meisburg Receives Recess
Appointment From President Bush to be NLRB Member
(Dec. 29, 2003). Despite OLC’s opinion and the Board’s
position that two-member quorums could exercise the full
powers of the Board, the Board prudently reconstituted
each three-member panel on which Member Acosta served
before his departure because there were enough members
of the Board to do so. Its own prudent actions should not
be used as a reason to strip the Board of a statutory
power.
And a further instructive history comes from the prac
tices of the original Board, before the 1947 Taft-Hartley
Act. The Wagner Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 451, provided for a
three-member Board and contained a vacancy provision
similar to the one found in §153(b): “A vacancy in the
Board shall not impair the right of the remaining mem
bers to exercise all the powers of the Board, and two mem
bers of the Board shall, at all times, constitute a quorum.”
§3(b), 49 Stat. 451. Under this statutory grant of author
ity, from 1935 to 1947 a two-member quorum of the Board
operated during three separate periods when the third
seat was vacant, issuing nearly 500 two-member decisions
during such times. Those two-member Boards issued 3
published decisions in 1936 (reported at 2 N. L. R. B.
198−240); 237 published decisions in 1940 (reported at 27
N. L. R. B. 1−1395 and 28 N. L. R. B. 1−115); and 225
published decisions in 1941 (reported at 35 N. L. R. B.
24−1360 and 36 N. L. R. B. 1−45); see also Brief for Re
spondent 3, n. 1.
Congress intended to preserve this practice when it
enacted the Taft-Hartley Act in 1947. The purpose of the
Taft-Hartley amendment was to increase the Board’s
efficiency by permitting multiple three-member groups to
exercise the full powers of the Board. See S. Rep. No. 105,

