Cite as: 559 U. S. ____ (2010)

3

Opinion of the Court

relevant here, §526(a) establishes several rules of profes
sional conduct for persons qualifying as debt relief agen
cies. Among them, §526(a)(4) states that a debt relief
agency shall not “advise an assisted person . . . to incur
more debt in contemplation of such person filing a case
under this title or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy peti
tion preparer fee or charge for services performed as part
of preparing for or representing a debtor in a case under
this title.”
Section 528 requires qualifying professionals to include
certain disclosures in their advertisements. Subsection (a)
provides that debt relief agencies must “clearly and con
spicuously disclose in any advertisement of bankruptcy
assistance services or of the benefits of bankruptcy di
rected to the general public . . . that the services or bene
fits are with respect to bankruptcy relief under this title.”
§528(a)(3). It also requires them to include the following,
“or a substantially similar statement”: “We are a debt
relief agency. We help people file for bankruptcy relief
under the Bankruptcy Code.” §528(a)(4). Subsection (b)
requires essentially the same disclosures in advertise
ments “indicating that the debt relief agency provides
assistance with respect to credit defaults, mortgage fore
closures, eviction proceedings, excessive debt, debt collec
tion pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt.”
§528(b)(2). Debt relief agencies advertising such services
must disclose “that the assistance may involve bankruptcy
relief,” §528(b)(2)(A), and must identify themselves as
“debt relief agenc[ies]” as required by §528(a)(4), see
§528(b)(2)(B).
II
The plaintiffs in this litigation—the law firm Milavetz,
Gallop & Milavetz, P. A.; the firm’s president, Robert J.
Milavetz; a bankruptcy attorney at the firm, Barbara
Nilva Nevin; and two of the firm’s clients (collectively

