10

BARBER v. THOMAS
KENNEDY, J., dissenting

release to certain prisoners, without specifying further
criteria, Congress deliberately created a “statutory gap”).
The statute even goes so far as to explain what to do “[i]f
the date for a prisoner’s release falls on a Saturday, a
Sunday, or a legal holiday.” §3624(a). This legislative
specificity as to timing contrasts with other provisions
that do delegate authority to BOP. E.g., §3624(b)(1)
(awarding of credit is “subject to determination” by BOP
that the prisoner “has displayed exemplary compliance
with institutional disciplinary regulations”).
BOP has not claimed that its view is the product of any
“formal administrative procedure tending to foster the
fairness and deliberation that should underlie a pro
nouncement” with the force of law. United States v. Mead
Corp., 533 U. S. 218, 230 (2001). In 2005, BOP made final
an administrative rule adopting its preferred methodology.
70 Fed. Reg. 66752 (adopting 28 CFR §523.20). But when
pressed during an earlier stage of this litigation, BOP
conceded that it had “failed to articulate in the adminis
trative record the rationale upon which it relied when it
promulgated” the rule. Tablada v. Thomas, 533 F. 3d 800,
805 (CA9 2008). The Court of Appeals accepted BOP’s
concession, ibid., and that aspect of its ruling has not been
appealed.
As a fallback position, the Government argues that
BOP’s interpretation should receive at least some defer
ence under Skidmore v. Swift & Co., 323 U. S. 134 (1944).
But under Skidmore, an agency decision only merits “re
spect proportional to its ‘power to persuade.’ ” Mead,
supra, at 235 (quoting Skidmore, supra, at 140). BOP’s
position is of long standing, but the administrative record
is noteworthy for what it does not contain—namely, any
reasoned justification for preferring BOP’s methodology
over statutorily permissible alternatives. BOP has consis
tently adhered to its mistaken belief that its approach is
the only one that can be squared with the text. See 62

