Cite as: 559 U. S. ____ (2010)

5

ALITO, J., dissenting

B
The Court’s only other reason for rejecting the common
law definition is the fact that battery at common law was
a misdemeanor. The Court reasons that “[i]t is unlikely
that Congress would select as a term of art defining ‘vio
lent felony’ a phrase that the common law gave peculiar
meaning only in its definition of a misdemeanor.” Ante, at
7 (citing 4 Blackstone 216–218 (1769), and ALI, Model
Penal Code §211.1, Comment, p. 175 (1980)). The Court
does not spell out why Congress’ selection of this term
would be unlikely, but I assume that the Court’s point is
that Congress is unlikely to have decided to treat as a
violent felony an offense that was regarded at common law
as a mere misdemeanor. This argument overlooks the
significance of the misdemeanor label at common law, the
subsequent evolution of battery statutes, and the limita
tion imposed by 18 U. S. C. §924(e)(2)(B).
At common law, the terms “felony” and “misdemeanor”
did not have the same meaning as they do today. At that
time, imprisonment as a form of punishment was rare, see
Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466, 480, n. 7 (2000);
most felonies were punishable by death, see Tennessee v.
Garner, 471 U. S. 1, 13 (1985); and many very serious
crimes, such as kidnaping and assault with the intent to
murder or rape, were categorized as misdemeanors. See
United States v. Watson, 423 U. S. 411, 439–440 (1976)
(Marshall, J., dissenting). Since that time, however, the
term “felony” has come to mean any offense punishable by
a lengthy term of imprisonment (commonly more than one
year, see Burgess v. United States, 553 U. S. 124, 130
(2008)); the term “misdemeanor” has been reserved for
minor offenses; and many crimes that were misdemeanors
at common law have been reclassified as felonies. And
when the relevant language in ACCA was enacted, quite a
few States had felony battery statutes that retained the
common-law definition of “force.” See Fla. Stat.

