Cite as: 559 U. S. ____ (2010)

15

BREYER, J., dissenting

employees and their beneficiaries in employee benefit
plans.” Shaw v. Delta Air Lines, Inc., 463 U. S. 85, 90
(1983); see also, e.g., 29 U. S. C. §1001(b) (noting that
ERISA was enacted “to protect . . . employee benefit plans
and their beneficiaries”); Curtiss-Wright Corp. v. Schoone
jongen, 514 U. S. 73, 83 (1995) (discussing ERISA’s central
“goa[l]” of “enab[ing] plan beneficiaries to learn their
rights and obligations at any time”); Massachusetts Mut.
Life Ins. Co. v. Russell, 473 U. S. 134, 148 (1985) (ERISA
was enacted “to protect contractually defined benefits”).
The majority does identify ERISA-related factors—e.g.,
promoting predictability and uniformity, encouraging
employers to adopt strong plans—that it believes favor
giving more power to plan administrators. See ante, at 9–
13. But, in my view, these factors are, at the least, offset
by the factors discussed above—e.g., discouraging admin­
istrators from writing opaque plans and interpreting them
aggressively—that argue to the contrary. At best, the
policies at issue—some arguing in one direction, some the
other—are far less able than trust law to provide a “guid­
ing principle.” Thus, I conclude that here, as elsewhere,
trust law ultimately provides the best way for courts to
approach the administration and interpretation of ERISA.
See, e.g., Firestone, supra, at 111–113. And trust law
here, as I have said, leaves to the supervising court the
decision as to how much weight to give to a plan adminis­
trator’s remedial opinion.
III
Since the District Court was not required to defer to the
Administrator’s fallback position, I should consider the
second question presented, namely, whether the Court of
Appeals properly reviewed the District Court’s decision
under an “abuse of discretion” standard. Ante, at 4 (ac­
knowledging, but not reaching, this issue). The answer to
this question depends upon how one characterizes the

