18

CONKRIGHT v. FROMMERT
B to the opinion of BREYER, J.
AppendixREYER, J., dissenting

APPENDIX

The “Phantom Account” 

This Appendix provides a simplified and illustrative
example of, as I understand it, how the “phantom account”
works. For the purposes of this Appendix, I make the
following assumptions: John worked at Xerox for 10 years
from 1970 to 1980. At the time of his departure from
Xerox, he was issued a lump-sum benefits distribution of
$140,000. He was then rehired in January 1989, and he
worked for Xerox for 5 more years before retiring (until
December 1993), earning $50,000 each year of his second
term of employment. I also assume that (1) Xerox’s con­
tribution to John’s investment account was $2,500 in 1989
(the last year such accounts were offered), (2) Xerox’s
contributions to John’s cash and investment accounts are
always made on the final day of the year, (3) the rate of
return in John’s cash and investment accounts is always 5
percent, and (4) annuity rates are also always 5 percent.
(For the sake of simplicity, I treat all annuities as perpe­
tuities, meaning that I calculate the present value of the
annuities thusly: Present Value = Annual Pay­
ment/Annuity Rate.)
Given the above assumptions, John’s pension upon his
retirement would be $10,500 per year ($50,000 × 1.4 per­
cent × 15 years), which has a present value of $210,000
($10,500/5 percent). John’s cash and investment accounts
at the end of his fifth year would look as follows (While
Xerox’s ERISA Plan did not include cash accounts until
1990, each employee’s opening cash account balance was
credited with the balance of his investment account at the
end of 1989. The figures for John’s cash account in 1989
thus reflect the performance of his investment account. In
addition, all numbers are rounded to the nearest hun­
dred):

