Cite as: 563 U. S. ____ (2011)

5

Opinion of the Court

that basis.
We recognized in Basic, however, that limiting proof of
reliance in such a way “would place an unnecessarily
unrealistic evidentiary burden on the Rule 10b–5 plaintiff
who has traded on an impersonal market.” Id., at 245.
We also observed that “[r]equiring proof of individualized
reliance from each member of the proposed plaintiff class
effectively would” prevent such plaintiffs “from proceeding
with a class action, since individual issues” would “over
whelm[ ] the common ones.” Id., at 242.
The Court in Basic sought to alleviate those related
concerns by permitting plaintiffs to invoke a rebuttable
presumption of reliance based on what is known as the
“fraud-on-the-market” theory. According to that theory,
“the market price of shares traded on well-developed
markets reflects all publicly available information, and,
hence, any material misrepresentations.” Id., at 246.
Because the market “transmits information to the investor
in the processed form of a market price,” we can assume,
the Court explained, that an investor relies on public
misstatements whenever he “buys or sells stock at the
price set by the market.” Id., at 244, 247 (internal quota
tion marks omitted); see also Stoneridge, supra, at 159;
Dura Pharmaceuticals, 544 U. S., at 341–342. The Court
also made clear that the presumption was just that, and
could be rebutted by appropriate evidence. See Basic,
supra, at 248.
B
It is undisputed that securities fraud plaintiffs must
prove certain things in order to invoke Basic’s rebuttable
presumption of reliance. It is common ground, for exam
ple, that plaintiffs must demonstrate that the alleged
misrepresentations were publicly known (else how would
the market take them into account?), that the stock traded
in an efficient market, and that the relevant transaction

