2

DOE v. REED
ALITO, J., concurring

(Ohio), 459 U. S. 87, 93 (1982). Because compelled disclo
sure can “burden the ability to speak,” Citizens United,
supra, at ___ (slip op., at 51), and “seriously infringe on
privacy of association and belief guaranteed by the First
Amendment,” Buckley, supra, at 64, the as-applied exemp
tion plays a critical role in safeguarding First Amendment
rights.
I
The possibility of prevailing in an as-applied challenge
provides adequate protection for First Amendment rights
only if (1) speakers can obtain the exemption sufficiently
far in advance to avoid chilling protected speech and (2)
the showing necessary to obtain the exemption is not
overly burdensome. With respect to the first requirement,
the as-applied exemption becomes practically worthless if
speakers cannot obtain the exemption quickly and well in
advance of speaking. To avoid the possibility that a dis
closure requirement might chill the willingness of voters
to sign a referendum petition (and thus burden a circula
tor’s ability to collect the necessary number of signatures,
cf. Meyer v. Grant, 486 U. S. 414, 423 (1988)), voters must
have some assurance at the time when they are presented
with the petition that their names and identifying infor
mation will not be released to the public. The only way a
circulator can provide such assurance, however, is if the
circulator has sought and obtained an as-applied exemp
tion from the disclosure requirement well before circulat
ing the petition. Otherwise, the best the circulator could
do would be to tell voters that an exemption might be
obtained at some point in the future. Such speculation
would often be insufficient to alleviate voters’ concerns
about the possibility of being subjected to threats, har
assment, or reprisals. Cf. Citizens United, supra, at ___
(slip op., at 5–6) (THOMAS, J., concurring in part and
dissenting in part).

