Cite as: 560 U. S. ____ (2010)

13

Opinion of the Court

thority to bind the courts. Through §994(u), Congress
charged the Commission with determining “in what cir
cumstances and by what amount” the sentences of prison
ers affected by Guidelines amendments “may be reduced.”
No one disputes that the Commission’s retroactivity de
terminations made pursuant to the first part of that au
thorization are binding. See post, at 17, and n. 8. This
aspect of the Commission’s power emphatically under
mines the dissent’s insistence that the Guidelines after
Booker are “completely advisory.” Post, at 9. Moreover,
while the dissent criticizes our approach for leaving the
Commission with only the “the tiniest sliver of lawmaking
power,” post, at 11, the dissent would leave the Commis
sion with an even smaller and less explicable sliver by
dissecting the authority granted by §994(u).
For all of these reasons, we conclude that neither
Booker’s constitutional nor remedial holding requires the
result that Dillon urges.
IV
Dillon additionally contends that the District Court
erred in failing to correct two mistakes in his original
sentence. Under his view of §3582(c)(2), a district court is
required to recalculate a defendant’s sentence. Thus, any
mistakes committed at the initial sentencing are imposed
anew if they are not corrected. According to Dillon, the
District Court in the instant proceeding should have cor
rected the Booker error that resulted from the initial
sentencing court’s treatment of the Guidelines as manda
tory, and it should have adjusted his criminal-history
category, which he now contends was erroneously inflated.
Dillon’s arguments in this regard are premised on the
same misunderstanding of the scope of §3582(c)(2) pro
ceedings dispelled above. As noted, §3582(c)(2) does not
authorize a resentencing. Instead, it permits a sentence
reduction within the narrow bounds established by the

