Cite as: 565 U. S. ____ (2012)

19

BREYER, J., dissenting

the most part covers works that the author did not expect
to protect in America (and often did not particularly want
to protect), seems somewhat farfetched.
In fact, Congressional practice shows the contrary. It
consists of a virtually unbroken string of legislation pre­
venting the withdrawal of works from the public domain.
See, e.g., Berne Convention Implementation Act of 1988,
§12, 102 Stat. 2860 (the Act “does not provide copyright
protection for any work that is in the public domain in the
United States”); Copyright Act of 1976, Tit. I, §101, 90
Stat. 2573 (declining to extend copyright protection to any
work that is in the public domain prior to the Act taking
effect); Copyright Act of 1909, §7, 35 Stat. 1077 (“[N]o
copyright shall subsist in the original text of any work
which is in the public domain, or in any work which was
published in this country or any foreign country prior to
the going into effect of this Act and has not been already
copyrighted in the United States”); Act to Amend the
Several Acts Respecting Copy Rights §16, 4 Stat. 439 (the
Act “shall not extend to any copyright heretofore secured,
the term of which has already expired”); see also H. R.
Rep. No. 1742, 87th Cong., 2d Sess., 3 (1962) (expressing
concern that because “it is not possible to revive expired
terms of copyright, it seems to the committee to be desira­
ble to suspend further expiration of copyright for a period
long enough to enable the working out of remaining obsta­
cles to the overall revision of the copyright law”).
2
The majority makes several other arguments. First, it
argues that the Clause does not require the “creation of at
least one new work,” ante, at 20, but may instead “promote
the Progress of Science” in other ways. And it specifically
mentions the “dissemination of existing and future works”
as determinative here. Ante, at 20–23, and n. 25. The
industry experts to whom the majority refers argue that

