8

KENTUCKY v. KING
Opinion of the Court

toilet or rinsing them down a drain. Persons in possession
of valuable drugs are unlikely to destroy them unless they
fear discovery by the police. Consequently, a rule that
precludes the police from making a warrantless entry to
prevent the destruction of evidence whenever their con­
duct causes the exigency would unreasonably shrink the
reach of this well-established exception to the warrant
requirement.
Presumably for the purpose of avoiding such a result,
the lower courts have held that the police-created exigency
doctrine requires more than simple causation, but the
lower courts have not agreed on the test to be applied.
Indeed, the petition in this case maintains that “[t]here
are currently five different tests being used by the United
States Courts of Appeals,” Pet. for Cert. 11, and that some
state courts have crafted additional tests, id., at 19–20.
III 

A

Despite the welter of tests devised by the lower courts,
the answer to the question presented in this case follows
directly and clearly from the principle that permits war­
rantless searches in the first place. As previously noted,
warrantless searches are allowed when the circumstances
make it reasonable, within the meaning of the Fourth
Amendment, to dispense with the warrant requirement.
Therefore, the answer to the question before us is that the
exigent circumstances rule justifies a warrantless search
when the conduct of the police preceding the exigency is
reasonable in the same sense. Where, as here, the police
did not create the exigency by engaging or threatening to
engage in conduct that violates the Fourth Amendment,
warrantless entry to prevent the destruction of evidence is
reasonable and thus allowed.4
——————
4 There

is a strong argument to be made that, at least in most circum­

