Cite as: 564 U. S. ____ (2011)

1

BREYER, J., concurring

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
_________________

No. 10–290
_________________

MICROSOFT CORPORATION, PETITIONER v. i4i 

LIMITED PARTNERSHIP ET AL. 

ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF 

APPEALS FOR THE FEDERAL CIRCUIT

[June 9, 2011]


JUSTICE BREYER, with whom JUSTICE SCALIA and JUSTICE ALITO join, concurring.
I join the Court’s opinion in full. I write separately be
cause, given the technical but important nature of the
invalidity question, I believe it worth emphasizing that in
this area of law as in others the evidentiary standard of
proof applies to questions of fact and not to questions of
law. See, e.g., Addington v. Texas, 441 U. S. 418, 423
(1979). Thus a factfinder must use the “clear and convinc
ing” standard where there are disputes about, say, when a
product was first sold or whether a prior art reference had
been published.
Many claims of invalidity rest, however, not upon fac
tual disputes, but upon how the law applies to facts as
given. Do the given facts show that the product was pre
viously “in public use”? 35 U. S. C. §102(b). Do they show
that the invention was “nove[l]” and that it was “non
obvious”? §§102, 103. Do they show that the patent ap
plicant described his claims properly? §112. Where the
ultimate question of patent validity turns on the correct
answer to legal questions—what these subsidiary legal
standards mean or how they apply to the facts as given—
today’s strict standard of proof has no application. See,
e.g., Graham v. John Deere Co. of Kansas City, 383 U. S. 1,
17 (1966); Minnesota Mining & Mfg. Co. v. Chemque, Inc.,

