Cite as: 562 U. S. ____ (2011)

3

Opinion of the Court

effective assistance of counsel. He complained that his
lawyer had not filed a motion to suppress his confession to
police in advance of the lawyer’s advice that Moore consid­
ered before accepting the plea offer. After an evidentiary
hearing, the Oregon court concluded a “motion to suppress
would have been fruitless” in light of the other admissible
confession by Moore, to which two witnesses could testify.
Id., at 140. As the court noted, Moore’s trial counsel ex­
plained why he did not move to exclude Moore’s confession
to police:
“Mr. Moore and I discussed the possibility of filing a
Motion to Suppress and concluded that it would be
unavailing, because . . . he had previously made a full
confession to his brother and to [his accomplice’s girl­
friend], either one of whom could have been called as
a witness at any time to repeat his confession in full
detail.” Jordan Affidavit (Feb. 26, 1999), App. to Pet.
for Cert. 70, ¶ 4.
Counsel added that he had made Moore aware of the
possibility of being charged with aggravated murder,
which carried a potential death sentence, as well as the
possibility of a sentence of life imprisonment without
parole. See Ore. Rev. Stat. §163.105(1)(a) (1995). The
intense and serious abuse to the victim before the shooting
might well have led the State to insist on a strong re­
sponse. In light of these facts the Oregon court concluded
Moore had not established ineffective assistance of counsel
under Strickland.
Moore filed a petition for habeas corpus in the United
States District Court for the District of Oregon, renewing
his ineffective-assistance claim. The District Court denied
the petition, finding sufficient evidence to support the
Oregon court’s conclusion that suppression would not have
made a difference.
A divided panel of the United States Court of Appeals

