Cite as: 567 U. S. ____ (2012)

11

BREYER, J., dissenting

sary appeal to the breast of the judge.” Id., at 72 (em­
phasis added).
The only generally applicable limitations on the judge,
when imposing the fine, were those contained in the Eng­
lish Bill of Rights and the Magna Carta. 1 W. & M., ch. 2,
§11, in 3 Eng. Stat. at Large 440 (forbidding “excessive
Fines”); Magna Carta §20, 9 Hen. III, §14, in 1 Eng. Stat.
at Large 5 (1225) (fine cannot deprive offender of means of
livelihood); see Auckland, supra, at 73 (so interpreting
Magna Carta); Blackstone 372–373 (same).
To be sure, the jury, not the judge, would determine the
facts that made up the elements of the crime, even though
those elements might be relevant to whether a fine could
apply and, if so, the amount of the fine imposed as well.
The common law, for example, defined larceny as the theft
of goods that had some intrinsic value and divided the
offense into grand larceny, which was theft of goods val­
ued at more than a shilling, and petit larceny, which was
theft of goods worth less than a shilling. Blackstone 229–
234; Langbein, supra, at 16–17; see also Beattie 424
(whether “benefit of clergy” was available depended on
value stolen). Consequently, the jury would determine the
value of the goods in question. In doing so, the jury might
“manipulate the sentence by valuing the goods at under a
shilling and thereby spare the defendant the capital sanc­
tion.” Lillquist, The Puzzling Return of Jury Sentencing:
Misgivings About Apprendi, 82 N. C. L. Rev. 621, 636
(2004). But otherwise “the jury could not influence what
other penalties” like fines the defendant might face be­
cause in “non-capital criminal cases” the amount of pun­
ishment “was left solely in the hands of the justices.” Ibid.
I cannot determine with any certainty the extent to
which 18th-century law placed other relevant limitations
upon the judges’ authority to determine fine-related sen­
tencing facts. I have found an 1814 English treatise on

