Cite as: 561 U. S. ____ (2010)

47

STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment

*
*
*
The constitutional standard for patentability is difficult
to apply with any precision, and Congress has significant
discretion to “implement the stated purpose of the Fram
ers by selecting the policy which in its judgment best
effectuates the constitutional aim,” Graham, 383 U. S., at
6. But Congress has not, either explicitly or implicitly,
determined that patents on methods of doing business
would effectuate this aim. And as I understand their
practical consequences, it is hard to see how they would.
VII
The Constitution grants to Congress an important
power to promote innovation. In its exercise of that power,
Congress has established an intricate system of intellec
tual property. The scope of patentable subject matter
under that system is broad. But it is not endless. In the
absence of any clear guidance from Congress, we have only
limited textual, historical, and functional clues on which
to rely. Those clues all point toward the same conclusion:
that petitioners’ claim is not a “process” within the mean
ing of §101 because methods of doing business are not, in
themselves, covered by the statute. In my view, acknowl
edging as much would be a far more sensible and re
strained way to resolve this case. Accordingly, while I
concur in the judgment, I strongly disagree with the
Court’s disposition of this case.

