Cite as: 564 U. S. ____ (2011)

17

BREYER, J., dissenting

Why is that a problem? Because these types of disputes
arise in bankruptcy court with some frequency. See, e.g.,
In re CBI Holding Co., 529 F. 3d 432 (CA2 2008) (state­
law claims and counterclaims); In re Winstar Communica
tions, Inc., 348 B. R. 234 (Bkrtcy. Ct. Del. 2005) (same);
In re Ascher, 128 B. R. 639 (Bkrtcy. Ct. ND Ill. 1991)
(same); In re Sun West Distributors, Inc., 69 B. R. 861
(Bkrtcy. Ct. SD Cal. 1987) (same). Because the volume of
bankruptcy cases is staggering, involving almost 1.6 mil­
lion filings last year, compared to a federal district court
docket of around 280,000 civil cases and 78,000 criminal
cases. Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
J. Duff, Judicial Business of the United States Courts:
Annual Report of the Director 14 (2010). Because unlike
the “related” non-core state law claims that bankruptcy
courts must abstain from hearing, see ante, at 36, compul­
sory counterclaims involve the same factual disputes as
the claims that may be finally adjudicated by the bank­
ruptcy courts. Because under these circumstances, a
constitutionally required game of jurisdictional ping-pong
between courts would lead to inefficiency, increased cost,
delay, and needless additional suffering among those faced
with bankruptcy.
For these reasons, with respect, I dissent.

