Cite as: 563 U. S. ____ (2011)

7

Opinion of the Court

pediatric neurologist who suggested that Pinholster suf­
fers from partial epilepsy and brain injury. The State
called Dr. F. David Rudnick, a psychiatrist who, like Dr.
Stalberg, diagnosed Pinholster with antisocial personality
disorder and rejected any diagnosis of bipolar disorder.
D
The District Court granted habeas relief. Applying preAEDPA standards, the court granted the habeas petition
“for inadequacy of counsel by failure to investigate and
present mitigation evidence at the penalty hearing.” App.
to Pet. for Cert. 262. After Woodford v. Garceau, 538 U. S.
202 (2003), clarified that AEDPA applies to cases like
Pinholster’s, the court amended its order but did not alter
its conclusion. Over a dissent, a panel of the Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed. Pinholster v.
Ayers, 525 F. 3d 742 (2008).
On rehearing en banc, the Court of Appeals vacated the
panel opinion and affirmed the District Court’s grant of
habeas relief. The en banc court held that the District
Court’s evidentiary hearing was not barred by 28 U. S. C.
§2254(e)(2). The court then determined that new evidence
from the hearing could be considered in assessing whether
the California Supreme Court’s decision “was contrary to,
or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly estab­
lished Federal law” under §2254(d)(1). See 590 F. 3d, at
666 (“Congress did not intend to restrict the inquiry under
§2254(d)(1) only to the evidence introduced in the state
habeas court”). Taking the District Court evidence into
account, the en banc court determined that the California
Supreme Court unreasonably applied Strickland v. Wash
ington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), in denying Pinholster’s claim
of penalty-phase ineffective assistance of counsel.
Three judges dissented and rejected the majority’s
conclusion that the District Court hearing was not barred
by §2254(e)(2). 590 F. 3d, at 689 (opinion of Kozinski,

