14

TAPIA v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of the Court

rally, 18 U. S. C. §3582(a)’s prohibition on “promoting
correction and rehabilitation” covers efforts to place of
fenders in rehabilitation programs. Indeed, §3582(a)’s lan
guage recalls the SRA’s description of the rehabilitative
purpose of sentencing—“provid[ing] the defendant with
needed educational or vocational training, medical care, or
other correctional treatment.” §3553(a)(2)(D). That de
scription makes clear that, under the SRA, treatment,
training, and like programs are rehabilitation’s sum and
substance. So amicus’s efforts to exclude rehabilitation
programs from the “recognizing” clause’s reach do not
succeed. That section prevents a sentencing court from
imposing or lengthening a prison term because the court
thinks an offender will benefit from a prison treatment
program.
IV
In this case, the sentencing transcript suggests the
possibility that Tapia’s sentence was based on her reha
bilitative needs.
We note first what we do not disapprove about Tapia’s
sentencing. A court commits no error by discussing the
opportunities for rehabilitation within prison or the bene
fits of specific treatment or training programs. To the
contrary, a court properly may address a person who is
about to begin a prison term about these important mat
ters. And as noted earlier, a court may urge the BOP to
place an offender in a prison treatment program. See
supra, at 11. Section 3582(a) itself provides, just after the
clause at issue here, that a court may “make a recommen
dation concerning the type of prison facility appropriate
for the defendant”; and in this calculus, the presence of a
rehabilitation program may make one facility more appro
priate than another. So the sentencing court here did
nothing wrong—and probably something very right—in
trying to get Tapia into an effective drug treatment

