Cite as: 563 U. S. ____ (2011)

9

Opinion of the Court

federal funds, have unequivocally expressed intent to
waive their sovereign immunity to suits for damages.
Strictly construing that phrase in favor of the sovereign—
as we must, see Lane, 518 U. S., at 192—we conclude that
it does not include suits for damages against a State.
2
The Court’s use of the phrase “appropriate relief” in
Franklin v. Gwinnett County Public Schools, 503 U. S. 60
(1992), and Barnes v. Gorman, 536 U. S. 181 (2002), does
not compel a contrary conclusion. In those cases, the
Court addressed what remedies are available against
municipal entities under the implied right of action to
enforce Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972,
§202 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and
§504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. With no statutory
text to interpret, the Court “presume[d] the availability of
all appropriate remedies unless Congress ha[d] expressly
indicated otherwise.” Franklin, 503 U. S., at 66. The
Court described the presumption as “[t]he general rule”
that “the federal courts have the power to award any
appropriate relief in a cognizable cause of action brought
pursuant to a federal statute.” Id., at 70–71 (emphasis
added); see Barnes, supra, at 185 (quoting Franklin, su­
pra, at 73). Finding no express congressional intent to
limit the remedies available under the implied right of
action, the Court held that compensatory damages were
available. Franklin, supra, at 73.
The presumption in Franklin and Barnes is irrelevant to
construing the scope of an express waiver of sovereign
immunity. See Lane, supra, at 196 (“[R]eliance on Frank­
lin . . . is misplaced” in determining whether damages are
available against the Federal Government). The question
here is not whether Congress has given clear direction
that it intends to exclude a damages remedy, see Franklin,
supra, at 70–71, but whether Congress has given clear

