Cite as: 563 U. S. ____ (2011)

1

SOTOMAYOR, J., dissenting

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
_________________

No. 08–1438
_________________

HARVEY LEROY SOSSAMON, III, PETITIONER v.

TEXAS ET AL. 

ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF 

APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT

[April 20, 2011] 


JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR, with whom JUSTICE BREYER joins,
dissenting.
The Court holds that the term “appropriate relief” is too
ambiguous to provide States with clear notice that they
will be liable for monetary damages under the Religious
Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000
(RLUIPA), 114 Stat. 803, 42 U. S. C. §2000cc et seq. I dis
agree. No one disputes that, in accepting federal funds,
the States consent to suit for violations of RLUIPA’s sub
stantive provisions; the only question is what relief is
available to plaintiffs asserting injury from such viola
tions. That monetary damages are “appropriate relief” is,
in my view, self-evident. Under general remedies princi
ples, the usual remedy for a violation of a legal right is
damages. Consistent with these principles, our precedents
make clear that the phrase “appropriate relief” includes
monetary relief. By adopting a contrary reading of the
term, the majority severely undermines the “broad protec
tion of religious exercise” Congress intended the statute to
provide. §2000cc–3(g). For these reasons, I respectfully
dissent.
I
A
As the Court acknowledges, the proposition that “States

