Cite as: 563 U. S. ____ (2011)

5

Opinion of the Court

By rules consistent with the longstanding practices of
Anglo-American courts a plaintiff who seeks to invoke the
federal judicial power must assert more than just the
“generalized interest of all citizens in constitutional gov­
ernance.” Schlesinger v. Reservists Comm. to Stop the
War, 418 U. S. 208, 217 (1974).
Continued adherence to the case-or-controversy re­
quirement of Article III maintains the public’s confidence
in an unelected but restrained Federal Judiciary. If the
judicial power were “extended to every question under the
constitution,” Chief Justice Marshall once explained,
federal courts might take possession of “almost every
subject proper for legislative discussion and decision.” 4
Papers of John Marshall 95 (C. Cullen ed. 1984) (quoted in
DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno, 547 U. S. 332, 341 (2006)).
The legislative and executive departments of the Federal
Government, no less than the judicial department, have a
duty to defend the Constitution. See U. S. Const., Art. VI,
cl. 3. That shared obligation is incompatible with the
suggestion that federal courts might wield an “uncondi­
tioned authority to determine the constitutionality of
legislative or executive acts.” Valley Forge Christian
College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and
State, Inc., 454 U. S. 464, 471 (1982). For the federal
courts to decide questions of law arising outside of cases
and controversies would be inimical to the Constitution’s
democratic character. And the resulting conflict between
the judicial and the political branches would not, “in the
long run, be beneficial to either.” United States v.
Richardson, 418 U. S. 166, 188–189 (1974) (Powell, J.,
concurring). Instructed by Chief Justice Marshall’s admo­
nition, this Court takes care to observe the “role assigned
to the judiciary” within the Constitution’s “tripartite
allocation of power.” Valley Forge, supra, at 474 (internal
quotation marks omitted).

