Cite as: 563 U. S. ____ (2011)

7

Opinion of the Court

tion, Inc., 551 U. S. 587, 599 (2007) (plurality opinion).
This precept has been referred to as the rule against tax­
payer standing.
The doctrinal basis for the rule was discussed in Froth
ingham v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447 (1923) (decided with
Massachusetts v. Mellon). There, a taxpayer-plaintiff had
alleged that certain federal expenditures were in excess
of congressional authority under the Constitution. The
plaintiff argued that she had standing to raise her claim
because she had an interest in the Government Treasury
and because the allegedly unconstitutional expenditure of
Government funds would affect her personal tax liability.
The Court rejected those arguments. The “effect upon
future taxation, of any payment out of funds,” was too
“remote, fluctuating and uncertain” to give rise to a case
or controversy. Id., at 487. And the taxpayer-plaintiff’s
“interest in the moneys of the Treasury,” the Court recog­
nized, was necessarily “shared with millions of others.”
Ibid. As a consequence, Frothingham held that the tax­
payer-plaintiff had not presented a “judicial controversy”
appropriate for resolution in federal court but rather a
“matter of public . . . concern” that could be pursued only
through the political process. Id., at 487–489.
In a second pertinent case, Doremus v. Board of Ed. of
Hawthorne, 342 U. S. 429 (1952), the Court considered
Frothingham’s prohibition on taxpayer standing in con­
nection with an alleged Establishment Clause violation. A
New Jersey statute had provided that public school teach­
ers would read Bible verses to their students at the start
of each schoolday. A plaintiff sought to have the law
enjoined, asserting standing based on her status as a
taxpayer. Writing for the Court, Justice Jackson reiter­
ated the foundational role that Article III standing plays
in our separation of powers.

