22

JERMAN v. CARLISLE, MCNELLIE, RINI, 

KRAMER & ULRICH LPA 

KENNEDY, J., dissenting 


original). In other words, the Court refuses to read
§1692k(c) to cover mistakes of law because other bona fide
error statutes do not expressly refer to such mistakes. But
the reverse should be true: If other bona fide error provi
sions included mistake-of-law language but §1692k(c) did
not, we might think that the omission in §1692k(c) sig
naled Congress’s intent to exclude mistakes of law. The
absence of mistake-of-law language in §1692k(c) is conse
quently less noteworthy because other statutes also omit
such language.
The Court emphasizes that some bona fide error de
fenses, like the one in the current version of the TILA,
expressly exclude legal errors from their scope. Ante, at
18 (citing 12 U. S. C. §4010(c)(2)). Yet this also can prove
the opposite of what the Court says it does: If a bona fide
error defense were generally assumed not to include legal
mistakes (as the Court argues), there would be no need to
expressly exclude them. It is only if the defense would
otherwise include such errors that exclusionary language
becomes necessary. By writing explicit exclusionary lan
guage into the TILA (and some other federal provisions),
Congress has indicated that those provisions would other
wise cover good-faith legal errors.
*
*
*
For these reasons, §1692k(c) is best read to encompass
mistakes of law. I would affirm the judgment of the Court
of Appeals.

