Cite as: 564 U. S. ____ (2011)

11

Opinion of the Court

guidelines, see 40 C. F. R. §60.22, .23 (2009); in compli
ance with those guidelines and subject to federal over
sight, the States then issue performance standards for
stationary sources within their jurisdiction, §7411(d)(1).
The Act provides multiple avenues for enforcement. See
County of Oneida, 470 U. S., at 237–239 (reach of remedial
provisions is important to determination whether statute
displaces federal common law). EPA may delegate im
plementation and enforcement authority to the States,
§7411(c)(1), (d)(1), but the agency retains the power to in
spect and monitor regulated sources, to impose adminis
trative penalties for noncompliance, and to commence civil
actions against polluters in federal court. §§7411(c)(2),
(d)(2), 7413, 7414. In specified circumstances, the Act im
poses criminal penalties on any person who knowingly
violates emissions standards issued under §7411. See
§7413(c). And the Act provides for private enforcement. If
States (or EPA) fail to enforce emissions limits against
regulated sources, the Act permits “any person” to bring a
civil enforcement action in federal court. §7604(a).
If EPA does not set emissions limits for a particular pol
lutant or source of pollution, States and private parties
may petition for a rulemaking on the matter, and EPA’s
response will be reviewable in federal court.
See
§7607(b)(1); Massachusetts, 549 U. S., at 516–517, 529. As
earlier noted, see supra, at 3, EPA is currently engaged in
a §7411 rulemaking to set standards for greenhouse gas
emissions from fossil-fuel fired power plants. To settle
litigation brought under §7607(b) by a group that included
the majority of the plaintiffs in this very case, the agency
agreed to complete that rulemaking by May 2012. 75 Fed.
Reg. 82392. The Act itself thus provides a means to seek
limits on emissions of carbon dioxide from domestic power
plants—the same relief the plaintiffs seek by invoking
federal common law. We see no room for a parallel track.

