Cite as: 561 U. S. ____ (2010)

13

STEVENS, J., dissenting

ing dispute. Same, too, for the question of illegality in
Buckeye; on its way to deciding the arbitration agree
ment’s validity, the court would have to decide whether
the contract was illegal, and in so doing, it would decide
the merits of the entire dispute.
In this case, however, resolution of the unconscionability
question will have no bearing on the merits of the underly
ing employment dispute. It will only, as a preliminary
matter, resolve who should decide the merits of that dis
pute. Resolution of the unconscionability question will,
however, decide whether the arbitration agreement itself
is “valid” under “such grounds as exist at law or in equity
for the revocation of any contract.” 9 U. S. C. §2. As
Prima Paint recognizes, the FAA commits those gateway
matters, specific to the arbitration agreement, to the
court. 388 U. S., at 403–404. Indeed, it is clear that the
present controversy over whether the arbitration agree
ment is unconscionable is itself severable from the merits
of the underlying dispute, which involves a claim of em
ployment discrimination. This is true for all gateway
matters, and for this reason Prima Paint has no applica
tion in this case.
IV
While I may have to accept the “fantastic” holding in
Prima Paint, id., at 407 (Black, J., dissenting), I most
certainly do not accept the Court’s even more fantastic
reasoning today. I would affirm the judgment of the Court
of Appeals, and therefore respectfully dissent.

