4

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF UNITED STATES OF 

AMERICA v. WHITING 

BREYER, J., dissenting 


bers. These witnesses are genuinely concerned that
employers, faced with the possibility of civil and
criminal penalties, will be extremely reluctant to hire
persons because of their linguistic or physical charac
teristics.” H. R. Rep. No. 99–682, at 68.
See also 42 U. S. C. §2000e–2(a)(1) (making it an “unlaw
ful employment practice” for an employer to discriminate
against an individual “because of such individual’s race,
color, religion, sex, or national origin”); U. S. Commission
on Civil Rights, The Tarnished Golden Door: Civil Rights
Issues in Immigration 74 (1980) (finding that “increased
employment discrimination against United States citizens
and legal residents who are racially and culturally iden
tifiable with major immigrant groups could be the un
intended result of an employer sanctions law”). The
Committee concluded that “every effort must be taken to
minimize the potentiality of discrimination.” H. R. Rep.
No. 99–682, at 68.
B
The Act reconciles these competing objectives in several
ways:
First, the Act prohibits employers from hiring an alien
knowing that the alien is unauthorized to work in the
United States. 8 U. S. C. §1324a(a)(1)(A).
Second, the Act provides an easy-to-use mechanism that
will allow employers to determine legality: the I–9 form.
In completing an I–9 form, the employer certifies that he
or she has examined one or two documents (e.g., a pass
port, or a driver’s license along with a Social Security
card) that tend to confirm the worker’s identity and em
ployability. §1324a(b)(1). Completion of the form in good
faith immunizes the employer from liability, even if the
worker turns out to be unauthorized. §§1324a(a)(3),
1324a(b)(6).
A later amendment to the law also allows an employer

