Cite as: 563 U. S. ____ (2011)

13

Opinion of the Court

ing amendments eliminated that potential redundancy
and centralized federal adjudicatory authority. That
hardly supports a conclusion that any state licensing
programs must also be contingent on the central federal
system.
In much the same vein, the Chamber argues that Con
gress’s repeal of “AWPA’s separate prohibition concerning
unauthorized workers belies any suggestion that IRCA
meant to authorize each of the 50 States . . . to impose
its own separate prohibition,” and that Congress instead
wanted uniformity in immigration law enforcement. Brief
for Petitioners 36. JUSTICE BREYER also objects to the
departure from “one centralized enforcement scheme”
under federal law. Post, at 7 (dissenting opinion). But
Congress expressly preserved the ability of the States to
impose their own sanctions through licensing; that—like
our federal system in general—necessarily entails the
prospect of some departure from homogeneity. And as for
“separate prohibition[s],” it is worth recalling that the
Arizona licensing law is based exclusively on the federal
prohibition—a court reviewing a complaint under the
Arizona law may “consider only the federal government’s
determination” with respect to “whether an employee is an
unauthorized alien.” §23–212(H).
Even more boldly, the Chamber contends that IRCA’s
savings clause was intended to allow States to impose
licensing sanctions solely on AWPA-related farm contract
ing licensees. AWPA specifically recognized that federal
regulation of farm contracting licensing was only “in
tended to supplement State law,” 29 U. S. C. §1871, and
the Chamber argues that the purpose of IRCA’s savings
clause was limited to preserving existing state farm con
tractor licensing programs. But here again no such limit
is remotely discernible in the statutory text. Absent any
textual basis, we are not inclined to limit so markedly
the otherwise broad phrasing of the savings clause. See

