Cite as: 559 U. S. ____ (2010)

21

GINSBURG, J., dissenting

Moreover, statutes qualify as “substantive” for Erie
purposes even when they have “procedural” thrusts as
well. See, e.g., Cohen, 337 U. S., at 555; cf. Woods v. Inter
state Realty Co., 337 U. S. 535, 536–538, and n. 1 (1949)
(holding diversity case must be dismissed based on state
statute that, by its terms, governed only proceedings in
state court). Statutes of limitations are, again, exemplary.
They supply “substantive” law in diversity suits, see York,
326 U. S., at 109–112, even though, as Shady Grove ac
knowledges, state courts often apply the forum’s limita
tions period as a “procedural” bar to claims arising under
the law of another State, see Reply Brief 24, n. 16; Tr. of
Oral Arg. 16–17. See also Restatement §§142–143 (when
adjudicating a foreign cause of action, State may use
either its own or the foreign jurisdiction’s statute of limi
tations, whichever is shorter). Similarly, federal courts
sitting in diversity give effect to state laws governing the
burden of proving contributory negligence, see Palmer v.
Hoffman, 318 U. S. 109, 177 (1943), yet state courts adju
dicating foreign causes of action often apply their own
local law to this issue. See Restatement §133 and Re
porter’s Note.
In short, Shady Grove’s effort to characterize §901(b) as
simply “procedural” cannot successfully elide this funda
mental norm: When no federal law or rule is dispositive of
an issue, and a state statute is outcome affective in the
sense our cases on Erie (pre- and post-Hanna) develop, the
Rules of Decision Act commands application of the State’s
law in diversity suits. Gasperini, 518 U. S., at 428;
Hanna, 380 U. S., at 468, n. 9; York, 326 U. S., at 109. As
this case starkly demonstrates, if federal courts exercising
diversity jurisdiction are compelled by Rule 23 to award
statutory penalties in class actions while New York courts
are bound by §901(b)’s proscription, “substantial varia
tions between state and federal [money judgments] may be
expected.” Gasperini, 518 U. S., at 430 (quoting Hanna,

