Cite as: 559 U. S. ____ (2010)

19

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

legislative history, it is necessary to distinguish between
procedural rules adopted for some policy reason and seem
ingly procedural rules that are intimately bound up in the
scope of a substantive right or remedy. Although almost
every rule is adopted for some reason and has some effect
on the outcome of litigation, not every state rule “defines
the dimensions of [a] claim itself,” post, at 12. New York
clearly crafted §901(b) with the intent that only certain
lawsuits—those for which there were not statutory penal
ties—could be joined in class actions in New York courts.
That decision reflects a policy judgment about which
lawsuits should proceed in New York courts in a class
form and which should not. As JUSTICE GINSBURG care
fully outlines, see post, at 8–10, §901(b) was “apparently”
adopted in response to fears that the class-action proce
dure, applied to statutory penalties, would lead to “ annihi
lating punishment of the defendant.” V. Alexander, Prac
tice Commentaries, C901:11, reprinted in 7B McKinney’s
Consolidated Laws of New York Ann., p. 104 (2006) (in
ternal quotation marks omitted); see also Sperry v.
Crompton Corp., 8 N. Y. 3d 204, 211, 863 N. E. 2d 1012,
1015 (2007). But statements such as these are not par
ticularly strong evidence that §901(b) serves to define who
can obtain a statutory penalty or that certifying such a
class would enlarge New York’s remedy. Any device that
makes litigation easier makes it easier for plaintiffs to
recover damages.
In addition to the fear of excessive recoveries, some
opponents of a broad class-action device “argued that there
was no need to permit class actions in order to encourage
litigation . . . when statutory penalties . . . provided an
aggrieved party with a sufficient economic incentive to
pursue a claim.” Id., at 211, 863 N. E. 2d, at 1015 (em
phasis added). But those opponents may have felt merely
that, for any number of reasons, New York courts should
not conduct trials in the class format when that format is

