Cite as: 562 U. S. ____ (2011)

9

Opinion of the Court

ments in a multipart claim it found insufficient, for
§2254(d) applies when a “claim,” not a component of one,
has been adjudicated.
There is no merit to the assertion that compliance with
§2254(d) should be excused when state courts issue sum
mary rulings because applying §2254(d) in those cases will
encourage state courts to withhold explanations for their
decisions. Opinion-writing practices in state courts are
influenced by considerations other than avoiding scrutiny
by collateral attack in federal court. Cf. In re Robbins, 18
Cal. 4th 770, 778, n. 1, 959 P. 2d 311, 316, n. 1 (1998)
(state procedures limiting habeas are “a means of protect
ing the integrity of our own appeal and habeas corpus
process,” rather than a device for “insulating our judg
ments from federal court review” (emphasis deleted)). At
the same time, requiring a statement of reasons could
undercut state practices designed to preserve the integrity
of the case-law tradition. The issuance of summary dispo
sitions in many collateral attack cases can enable a state
judiciary to concentrate its resources on the cases where
opinions are most needed. See Brief for California Attor
neys for Criminal Justice et al. as Amici Curiae 8 (noting
that the California Supreme Court disposes of close to
10,000 cases a year, including more than 3,400 original
habeas corpus petitions).
There is no merit either in Richter’s argument that
§2254(d) is inapplicable because the California Supreme
Court did not say it was adjudicating his claim “on the
merits.” The state court did not say it was denying the
claim for any other reason. When a federal claim has been
presented to a state court and the state court has denied
relief, it may be presumed that the state court adjudicated
the claim on the merits in the absence of any indication or
state-law procedural principles to the contrary. Cf. Harris
v. Reed, 489 U. S. 255, 265 (1989) (presumption of a merits
determination when it is unclear whether a decision ap

