8

GOODYEAR DUNLOP TIRES OPERATIONS, S. A.
v. BROWN
Opinion of the Court

State, thus invoking the benefits and protections of its
laws.” Hanson v. Denckla, 357 U. S. 235, 253 (1958). See,
e.g., World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson, 444 U. S.
286, 287, 297 (1980) (Oklahoma court may not exercise
personal jurisdiction “over a nonresident automobile re
tailer and its wholesale distributor in a products-liability
action, when the defendants’ only connection with Okla
homa is the fact that an automobile sold in New York to
New York residents became involved in an accident in
Oklahoma”); Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz, 471 U. S.
462, 474–475 (1985) (franchisor headquartered in Florida
may maintain breach-of-contract action in Florida against
Michigan franchisees, where agreement contemplated on
going interactions between franchisees and franchisor’s
headquarters); Asahi Metal Industry Co. v. Superior Court
of Cal., Solano Cty., 480 U. S. 102, 105 (1987) (Taiwanese
tire manufacturer settled product liability action brought
in California and sought indemnification there from Japa
nese valve assembly manufacturer; Japanese company’s
“mere awareness . . . that the components it manufac
tured, sold, and delivered outside the United States would
reach the forum State in the stream of commerce” held
insufficient to permit California court’s adjudication of
Taiwanese company’s cross-complaint); id., at 109 (opinion
of O’Connor, J.); id., at 116–117 (Brennan, J., concurring
in part and concurring in judgment). See also Twitchell,
The Myth of General Jurisdiction, 101 Harv. L. Rev. 610,
628 (1988) (in the wake of International Shoe, “specific
jurisdiction has become the centerpiece of modern jurisdic
tion theory, while general jurisdiction plays a reduced
role”).
In only two decisions postdating International Shoe,
discussed infra, at 11–13, has this Court considered
whether an out-of-state corporate defendant’s in-state
contacts were sufficiently “continuous and systematic” to
justify the exercise of general jurisdiction over claims

