Cite as: 564 U. S. ____ (2011)

5

THOMAS, J., dissenting

were a driving force behind the changed understanding of
children and childhood. See Reinier 2–5; H. Brewer, By
Birth or Consent 97 (2005) (hereinafter Brewer); K. Cal
vert, Children in the House 59–60 (1992) (hereinafter
Calvert). Locke taught that children’s minds were blank
slates and that parents therefore had to be careful and
deliberate about what their children were told and ob
served. Parents had only themselves to blame if, “by hu
mouring and cockering” their children, they “poison’d
the fountain” and later “taste[d] the bitter waters.” Some
Thoughts Concerning Education (1692), in 37 English
Philosophers of the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries
27–28 (C. Eliot ed. 1910). All vices, he explained, were
sowed by parents and “those about children.” Id., at 29.
Significantly, Locke did not suggest circumscribing paren
tal authority but rather articulated a new basis for it.
Rousseau disagreed with Locke in important respects, but
his philosophy was similarly premised on parental control
over a child’s development. Although Rousseau advocated
that children should be allowed to develop naturally, he
instructed that the environment be directed by “a tutor
who is given total control over the child and who removes
him from society, from all competing sources of authority
and influence.” J. Fliegelman, Prodigals and Pilgrims 30
(1982) (hereinafter Fliegelman); see also Reinier 15.
These writings received considerable attention in Amer
ica. Locke’s An Essay Concerning Human Understanding
and his Some Thoughts Concerning Education were sig
nificantly more popular than his Two Treatises of Gov
ernment, according to a study of 92 colonial libraries
between 1700 and 1776. Lundberg & May, The Enlight
ened Reader in America, 28 American Quarterly 262, 273
(1976) (hereinafter Lundberg). And Rousseau’s Emile, a
treatise on education, was more widely advertised and
distributed than his political work, The Social Contract.
Fliegelman 29; see also Lundberg 285. In general, the

