4

SMITH v. SPISAK
Opinion of the Court

factor, any aspect of a defendant’s character or record and
any of the circumstances of the offense that the defendant
proffers as a basis for a sentence less than death.” ’ ” 486
U. S., at 374 (quoting Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U. S. 104,
110 (1982), in turn quoting Lockett v. Ohio, 438 U. S. 586,
604 (1978) (plurality opinion)). Second, the sentencing
judge or jury “ ‘ may not refuse to consider or be precluded
from considering “any relevant mitigating evidence.” ’ ”
Mills, 486 U. S., at 374–375 (quoting Skipper v. South
Carolina, 476 U. S. 1, 4 (1986), in turn quoting Eddings,
supra, at 114).
Applying these principles, the Court held that the jury
instructions and verdict forms at issue in the case violated
the Constitution because, read naturally, they told the
jury that it could not find a particular circumstance to be
mitigating unless all 12 jurors agreed that the mitigating
circumstance had been proved to exist. Mills, 486 U. S., at
380–381, 384. If, for example, the defense presents evi
dence of three potentially mitigating considerations, some
jurors may believe that only the first is mitigating, some
only the second, and some only the third. But if even one
of the jurors believes that one of the three mitigating
considerations exists, but that he is barred from consider
ing it because the other jurors disagree, the Court held,
the Constitution forbids imposition of the death penalty.
See id., at 380, 384; see also McKoy v. North Carolina, 494
U. S. 433, 442–443 (1990) (“Mills requires that each juror
be permitted to consider and give effect to . . . all mitigat
ing evidence in deciding . . . whether aggravating circum
stances outweigh mitigating circumstances . . . ”). Because
the instructions in Mills would have led a reasonable juror
to believe the contrary, the Court held that the sentencing
proceeding violated the Constitution. 486 U. S., at 374–
375.

